# Preface

Welcome to Hermeneutics and Exegesis for Laypeople. This book was about four years in the making. I was co-leading a bible study in Los Angeles when we came to an important realization. If you wanted to teach people how to study their Bibles more deeply, there was very little intermediate material available. You had beginner studies covering basic concepts like the inductive method, and then you had seminary textbooks. How could we bridge the gap?

We decided to hold a Saturday morning seminar. It was four hours long: two one-and-a-half-hour sessions with a lunch hour in between. We hosted about thirty-five people at our house. A good friend cooked an incredible barbeque lunch for everyone. It was wonderful. The content was well-received and proved helpful for everyone.

Each successive year, I somehow found an opportunity to teach this seminar in a different context. And each time, I incrementally refined the content. I taught it to eighty deacons and small group leaders one Saturday morning at church. While my wife and I lived in Africa, I taught it to two young church members over several months (usually after dinner, by candlelight, during power outages). I led seminars over Zoom during the COVID-19 pandemic for my local church and a friend's church. The content morphed and changed over time, always positively. Feedback from participants, friends, and elders strengthened what was already there and added new perspectives that were missing.

At this point, the course was essentially a PowerPoint presentation accompanied by lectures. I began to ponder how to expand this content and make it more useful. I had the idea to convert it into a book. Ideally, this book would be short. It would be helpful for both individuals and small groups. And it could serve as a springboard for fresh iterations of this content: discussion guides, small group curriculum, and new focus areas, including Application and Homiletics for Laypeople.

That's the story of this book. This book is essentially an adaptation of a seminar: slides that have become sections, bullet points that have become paragraphs, and so on. I hope you find it helpful. Whatever version of this book you're reading now, there will probably be another one after it. Isaiah 40:8 says, "The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever." The trends and terminologies of hermeneutics and exegesis are like the grass and flowers in this verse: they wither, fade, and regrow each season. These concepts flourish in an environment of constant iteration.

In the same way, I encourage you to develop your own habit of relentless improvement; take this content and incrementally refine it on your own. But keep this truth in front of you: "the word of our God stands forever." God's Word never changes.
